README.md, before:

# Stream One: Front End Project

## About

This project has been re-deployed to this repository. For earlier work, please see the original deployment at this location:

https://github.com/bransfieldjack/StreamOneProject-master

This is a portfolio site for a well known artist from Cork City, Chris O'Shea. 
Chris is the owner of Pebble Lyrics, a locally based art company specialising in unique, custom, hand-made pebble pictures. 
All of the materials used in Chris' work, are sourced locally from renewable materials where possible. 
The purpose of the site is to showcase Chris' work. 
For this project, we agreed that the single scrolling page layout would be most appropriate. 
This approach allowed for a more structured flow of information being received from the site by the user. 
The single scrolling site is also great for mobile use, however excessive scrolling was one problem I wished to limit. 
To mitigate this, I have added seperate HTML pages where necessary. (Contact form & Portfolio etc.)

The final, completed project can be viewed here:

https://bransfieldjack.github.io/

## Technology Used

 * Sublimetext Text Editor
 * Cloud 9 IDE
 * HTML5
 * CSS
 * Bootstrap v4.1.3
 * jQuery v3.3.1

## Other Sources

Third party sources used in this project:

 - https://www.w3schools.com/
   (This site provided insight into modal functionality)
 - https://startbootstrap.com/template-categories/all/
   (Bootstrap allowed me to quickly deploy stylish boiler plate code which could be modified to suit)
 - Prior knowledge of testing with Selenium (Current role)
   (My current job has allowed me to utilise this technology for QA purposes)

## Automated Testing

Automated testing for this project was carried out using Selenium Web driver in microsoft visual studio with C# and Jasmine unit testing for the modal in the js gallery. 
Unit testing was used to carry out form validation as well as verifying that the site can be opened using the respective web drivers, and that navigation links on the site can be access. 
I used Jasmine to write specific test cases to test modal functionality. 

The results of the unit tests flagged a an issues with the navigation bar on every page on the site. 
During an earlier commit, the 'stylish-portfolio.min.js' file had been renamed to 'stylish-portfolio.js'. 
This was causing the navbar to become completely unresponsive in production (github pages) but that was not the case in staging, as it worked as normal in Cloud 9 IDE. 

![Unit Test Image](https://s3-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/stream-one-project/selenium_unit_test.PNG)

![Unit Test Image](https://s3-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/stream-one-project/jasmine_modal_failing_tests.PNG)

## Manual Testing (Web Application Testing):

Linking/pages:

 - Checked all outgoing (page to page) and internal links (form submission button).
 - Checked all "jumping" links on the index.html page. The page scrolls as expected. 
 - Confirmed that no orphan pages exist as part of this project. (Un-used pages left over from the development process)
 - Tested form submission link and form validation. The form submission button should redirect to a locally installed email application - confirmed that is the case. 
	
Form Testing:

 - Confirmed that form validation is working as expected on the contact.html page. Users cannot submit a form without a valid email address. 
	
Cookies Testing:

 - Disabled cookies and confirmed that the site behaves as per normal. 
 - No observable effect on application security after disabling cookies during or outside of a session. 

HTML Validation:

 - Validated all HTML code using: https://validator.w3.org/ (Fixed minor errors/warnings)

Database Testing

 - Not applicable.

Ease of Learning:

 - The scrolling nature of the index.html page is intuitive. 

Navigation:

 - The site is relatively easy to navigate. The Navbar exists on every page and irrelevant links are prohibited where required. 
 - I believe the site to be subjectively satisfying. It fulfills its purpose well and is visually pleasing. The site is not overladen with unecessary content. 

Compatability:

 - Cross browser compatability testing has been conducted using Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Opera. 
 - Mobile compatability testing has been undertaken to ensure that the site works well on mobile devices. Issues with the modal "close" button have been resolved via this method. 

## Deployment

This project was deployed using Github pages. 
Having used the bash command line interface in cloud 9 IDE throughout the majority of this project for version control, deploying the finished site was relatively straight forward. 
It should be noted that each commit from the bash shell to the github repository represents feature and functional updates to the site as part of the development process. 
Deployment steps:

 - Create a github repository with an appropriate name if not already done. In my case, the initial repository still exists, however the final deployment was pushed to clean repository. 
 - I created a local directory using bash command line, and cloned the new repository to that destination. This allowed for me to push my work to the remote repository from the command line. 

Simple instructions can be found here:

https://pages.github.com/

Commit message:

Updated the README.md file with information regarding site navigation description.

README.md, after:

# Stream One: Front End Project

## About

This project has been re-deployed to this repository. For earlier work, please see the original deployment at this location:

https://github.com/bransfieldjack/StreamOneProject-master

This is a portfolio site for a well known artist from Cork City, Chris O'Shea. 
Chris is the owner of Pebble Lyrics, a locally based art company specialising in unique, custom, hand-made pebble pictures. 
All of the materials used in Chris' work, are sourced locally from renewable materials where possible. 
The purpose of the site is to showcase Chris' work. 
For this project, we agreed that the single scrolling page layout would be most appropriate. 
This approach allowed for a more structured flow of information being received from the site by the user. 
The single scrolling site is also great for mobile use, however excessive scrolling was one problem I wished to limit. 
To mitigate this, I have added seperate HTML pages where necessary. (Contact form & Portfolio etc.)

The final, completed project can be viewed here:

https://bransfieldjack.github.io/

# Site Navigation Description:

The user arrives at the top of the scrolling site page. 
They are greeted by a detailed, vivid background image of a beach. 
There are only two visible clickable buttons, in line with the minimal feel of the site. 
There is a "find out more" page jump button, and a navbar menu toggle button. 
Clicking on the find out more button, will automatically scroll the user down the page of the site to the about section describing the site. 
The about section also contains another page jump button, which will further scroll the user to another section containing information about the artist.
After the user has begun navigating their way down the page, a "scroll to top" button will appear in the lower right hand corner of the page.
This can be used to easily and quickly navigate back to the welcome banner at the top of the site. 
The portfolio section of the site is where the artist is showcasing their work. 
It was important to choose material contained in the portfolio secition of the main page, which was in keeping with the selection of colors/palette chosen for the theme of the project. 
Each image was styled using the bootstrap portfolio item class, which allowed for the images to respond when hovered over. 
Clicking on an image will navigate to the respective profiles gallery, which will contain an array of pictures and a description of the work. 
When the user clicks on the thumbnail picture in the profile area, a modal window with a scaled version of the same image will appear. 
The user can easily close the image using the close button in the upper right hand corner of the modal.
The user can navigate back to the main scrolling site using the menu toggle button, who's list items have been reduced accordingly as per each profile page. 
There is also and option for the user to navigate to a contact page. 
This also exists as an option in the main page area as well, underneath the portfolio section.
The contact page for the site is in line with the minimalist theme, and contains one form with email validation as well as a pair of social media links at the bottom of the page. 
These links will redirect the user to the artists facebook and instagram accounts, and the links appear on every one of the sites pages. 
At the end of the main page I have included an iframe with geographical information of the artists whereabouts in the form of a google maps link.
All of the above functionality has been tested with chromes dev tools for mobile first, responsive functionality, and I have confirmed the same with no issues. 


## Technology Used

 * Sublimetext Text Editor
 * Cloud 9 IDE
 * HTML5
 * CSS
 * Bootstrap v4.1.3
 * jQuery v3.3.1

## Other Sources

Third party sources used in this project:

 - https://www.w3schools.com/
   (This site provided insight into modal functionality)
 - https://startbootstrap.com/template-categories/all/
   (Bootstrap allowed me to quickly deploy stylish boiler plate code which could be modified to suit)
 - Prior knowledge of testing with Selenium (Current role)
   (My current job has allowed me to utilise this technology for QA purposes)

## Automated Testing

Automated testing for this project was carried out using Selenium Web driver in microsoft visual studio with C# and Jasmine unit testing for the modal in the js gallery. 
Unit testing was used to carry out form validation as well as verifying that the site can be opened using the respective web drivers, and that navigation links on the site can be access. 
I used Jasmine to write specific test cases to test modal functionality. 

The results of the unit tests flagged a an issues with the navigation bar on every page on the site. 
During an earlier commit, the 'stylish-portfolio.min.js' file had been renamed to 'stylish-portfolio.js'. 
This was causing the navbar to become completely unresponsive in production (github pages) but that was not the case in staging, as it worked as normal in Cloud 9 IDE. 

![Unit Test Image](https://s3-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/stream-one-project/selenium_unit_test.PNG)

![Unit Test Image](https://s3-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/stream-one-project/jasmine_modal_failing_tests.PNG)

## Manual Testing (Web Application Testing):

Linking/pages:

 - Checked all outgoing (page to page) and internal links (form submission button).
 - Checked all "jumping" links on the index.html page. The page scrolls as expected. 
 - Confirmed that no orphan pages exist as part of this project. (Un-used pages left over from the development process)
 - Tested form submission link and form validation. The form submission button should redirect to a locally installed email application - confirmed that is the case. 
	
Form Testing:

 - Confirmed that form validation is working as expected on the contact.html page. Users cannot submit a form without a valid email address. 
	
Cookies Testing:

 - Disabled cookies and confirmed that the site behaves as per normal. 
 - No observable effect on application security after disabling cookies during or outside of a session. 

HTML Validation:

 - Validated all HTML code using: https://validator.w3.org/ (Fixed minor errors/warnings)

Database Testing

 - Not applicable.

Ease of Learning:

 - The scrolling nature of the index.html page is intuitive. 

Navigation:

 - The site is relatively easy to navigate. The Navbar exists on every page and irrelevant links are prohibited where required. 
 - I believe the site to be subjectively satisfying. It fulfills its purpose well and is visually pleasing. The site is not overladen with unecessary content. 

Compatability:

 - Cross browser compatability testing has been conducted using Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Opera. 
 - Mobile compatability testing has been undertaken to ensure that the site works well on mobile devices. Issues with the modal "close" button have been resolved via this method. 

## Deployment

This project was deployed using Github pages. 
Having used the bash command line interface in cloud 9 IDE throughout the majority of this project for version control, deploying the finished site was relatively straight forward. 
It should be noted that each commit from the bash shell to the github repository represents feature and functional updates to the site as part of the development process. 
Deployment steps:

 - Create a github repository with an appropriate name if not already done. In my case, the initial repository still exists, however the final deployment was pushed to clean repository. 
 - I created a local directory using bash command line, and cloned the new repository to that destination. This allowed for me to push my work to the remote repository from the command line. 

Simple instructions can be found here:

https://pages.github.com/
